# Connection Theory Comments

1.30.2019

Suppose you have a language L and another L*. L is well understood and bears all known common human language characteristics:

1. Generative Grammar.
2. Concepts are understood well-enough and at least in principle fully expressible using other human language(s).
3. Gives rise to universal syntactic, mirphic 
and phonemic common to human language and cognition.

L* however lacks 2 and 3 though a fragment consistent with the remainder can be translated into L. If there's nothing suspicious about the reminder (the same syntax at play for the translated portion is identical to that at play for the remainder), then we might say there is more to langauge than we can presently translate.

This is superficially similar to the argument for Platonism fron Second Incompleteness (there are more truths to mathematics than can be proven in known  language systems of the Second Order or sufficient for arithematic).

Equivalences between the Peano Successor function and characterizations of the ordinals and category theoretic characterizations may inform this discussion:

1. A shared ontological concept is employed in both: sets, that provides an invariant shared background of discourse.
2. Mappings are defined on sets in this case.

Here, we have generalizations of common mathematical operations into functions, functions into mappings, and mappings into connectors.

A few organizational distinctions:

1. Ontological considerations - i.e. the implicit background of sets (analogous current status)
2. Suitable for formalization (Cantorian Set Theory -> ZFC Set Theory which selects or picks out of the background universe of Sets, sets that are useful enough to build mathematics).
3. Ways of comprehending mathematics (algebraic, categorical, logical, etc.) and proofs documenting insights into those ways of comprehending.